fear you me our friends and our parents
we all live in constant fear sometimes
without even realizing it
fear is a powerful force that lives
inside you
and governs your every action whether
you like it or not
we feel it the strongest when we meet
something that scares us
a stranger in a dark alley right behind
you
a loud noise out of nowhere in complete
silence
a frantic hawk of a car when you're
crossing the street
but the real fear is much deeper and
more insidious than that
you might remember a time when you were
waiting beside yourself
for the results of the final test on the
subject you never really understood
you go about your day as usual but
somewhere in the back of your skull
there's a feeling that gnaws on you
whispering that you
fail you're a disgrace a loser and
when the results are finally announced
no matter what they are
you feel a rush of relief there are lots
of types of fear
the instinctive animal one is the most
basic
the fear for your life and the fear of
pain are given to us
as a means of self-preservation like
fear of heights
you look down from the top of a
high-rise building
and your head is spinning because you
don't want to fall
you're scared fear resides in our
deepest
and darkest self it was born because it
helped our earliest ancestors survive
now it's become something we have to
overcome every single day
we give it different names trying to
hide its true nature
but what we call stress or anxiety is
nothing but
fear in its purest form even from the
point of physiology
fear of immediate danger and pressure of
stress
are caused by the same hormones
adrenaline and cortisol
they give you a boost of energy to
overcome a threat
but when they're in the game for too
long they quickly turn from
friends to enemies messing with your
heart blood
and sugar levels we humans are extremely
complex beings
and we're afraid of things animals can't
even imagine
and i'm not talking about nightmares or
creatures from horror movies
i'm speaking of the fear of life itself
from early childhood we're
subconsciously being taught to be afraid
toddlers learn to behave for fear of
being punished
school kids bring home good marks for
fear of being scolded by their parents
college and university students try
their best for fear of being expelled
and workers show good results for fear
of being fired
even the most successful business people
are afraid of going out of luck
and losing their wealth it's a
never-ending chain of fears
that presses us almost from birth and to
the end of our lives
beneath these layers of fear though lies
the simple truth
they're all caused by conditioning and
that's perhaps
the scariest part of human nature
without this learned fear of
consequences
we'd be able to do atrocious things with
not a single pang of guilt
the whole moral code we build and follow
within the society
is based on the fear of getting
penalized by other people
imagine if you had superpowers whichever
you like
for example if it was super strength and
invulnerability
you might become a hero rescuing the
weak
but wouldn't it cross your mind at least
once that you could break into a bank
vault instead
and get away with all the money you want
or perhaps
get back at those who bullied you in
school you can banish these thoughts all
you like
but there's no hiding from the truth the
only thing that constrains you
is your own conscious or put simply
the fear of consequences and the lack of
those superpowers of course
as children we seem to believe we're
immortal
and live our lives to the fullest with
all the ups and downs
but once we learn there's going to be
the end of us
we grow fearful we can't but stop to
think of
what we're doing with our lives what if
i don't leave
any mark of my own on this world what if
my life is useless
what if i'm gone tomorrow and no one
will even remember me
these intrinsic fears both push us
forward and hold us back
when you want to make some serious
change in your life
like confessing your feelings to someone
you love
there are two fears fighting inside you
tugging you back and forth
one is telling you you'll be rejected
because you're too shy
too small too insignificant for this
person
they deserve better than you and the
other is fear of what will happen
if you don't come out with your feelings
you might stay forever alone
and the person you love will choose
someone else
leaving you to watch and blame yourself
for not being braver
in the end it's one of those fears that
wins
and you get to live with the fruit of
your choice
but make no mistake even those who seem
fearless in the eyes of others have
anxieties of their own
in fact they probably are much more
insecure than they show
the bold facade might hide a ton of
unresolved personal issues
someone who bullies others and isn't
afraid of getting into a fight
might be doing that to spill out their
pent up anger at the world
a person whose life is a thrilling
adventure could be afraid of not being
recognized
or not living their life to the fullest
finally
the heart of any company always
surrounded with friends and fans
who's not afraid of approaching anyone
might be terribly scared of staying
alone
and yet all these fears can be explained
they're part of what you are and if you
dig deep enough
you'll find reasons for them all but
there are other fears that seemingly
don't follow any logic
you might be a lover of extreme sports
skydiving
mountain climbing base jumping or
whatever but be afraid of swimming to
the point
where you don't even go near the water
or
say you can bravely throw yourself into
a fire
and save dozens of lives but are scared
scentless at the sight of a harmless
bug others might write it off as your
little quirk
but it has much deeper roots in your
past
and most probably you don't even
remember
what made you feel this way our brain
tends to block traumatic experience we
had
and doesn't let us recall it to protect
us
it usually happens with something really
bad
something that broke you down at some
point in your life
to recover from damage you need to blot
out this event from your memory
and your brain obliged but even though
you can't remember what exactly happened
the effects of it might have clung on
and sometimes they're not so obvious
if you're afraid of water it might mean
that sometime in the past
you nearly drowned and were barely
brought back to life
but it could also be that you were
witness to something horrible
on or near a body of water fear of the
dark might be just that the fear of
what's hiding in there
one of our most ancient instincts yet
you personally could be affected by
darkness in a much deeper way than
others
because as a child you were left alone
in the dark
as punishment far too many times
still although fear can't be defeated
entirely
it doesn't need to be the anxiety about
not being accomplished in life
makes us strive for improvement without
it
no great discoveries would have been
made and no daring souls would have
fueled the progress
if we had no fear whatsoever our life
would also
be terribly boring just imagine not
being able to enjoy a roller coaster
ride
or a good horror movie there would be no
thrill in those
and we'd never feel that awesome rush of
excitement
adrenaline gives us and finally
there would probably be no us to speak
of at all
fear appeared millions of years ago as
an evolutionary feature
it allowed our ancestors to adequately
measure their surroundings
and either fight a predator they felt
they could take on
or flee from an apparently stronger
enemy
this is known as a fight or flight
response
and you can feel its effects to this day
alternatively
you could freeze on the spot when the
danger is too huge
this is how many animals make predators
lose interest in them
by pretending not to be alive so
don't fight your fear too much and
neither should you be ashamed of it
it's an indispensable part of your
nature
so embrace it and let it be your friend
instead